README.md, before:

# k_means
This project provides an implementation of the K-means clustering algorithm using Deno and TypeScript. It reads data from a CSV file, performs k-means clustering, and can generate an SVG visualization of the results.

## How it Works
The process starts in `main.ts`, which reads and normalizes data from a CSV file (`data_1.csv` via `parser.ts`). It then initializes a specified number of clusters using the `divide_and_set_clusters` function from `parse_csv.ts`. This function assigns points to initial clusters and calculates their centroids. The core k-means algorithm is then executed by calling `iterate_clusters` (defined in `utils/cluster.ts`, not shown), which iteratively refines the cluster assignments and centroid positions. Finally, the results can be visualized by generating an SVG using the `createClusterSVG` function from `utils/svg.ts`.

- **`main.ts`**: The entry point of the application, orchestrating the data loading, cluster initialization, and iteration process.
- **`utils/parser.ts`**: Handles reading and parsing data from CSV files.
- **`utils/parse_csv.ts`**: Contains functions for dividing data into initial clusters and calculating initial centroids.
- **`utils/cluster.ts` (inferred)**: Contains the core k-means logic, including data normalization, centroid calculation, and the iterative clustering process.
- **`utils/svg.ts`**: Generates an SVG string representation of the clustered data for visualization.
- **`types/cluster_types.ts`**: Defines the TypeScript types used for points, clusters, and raw data.

## File Structure
```
k_means/
├── main.ts
├── types/
│   └── cluster_types.ts
└── utils/
    ├── colors.ts (inferred)
    ├── cluster.ts (inferred)
    ├── parse_csv.ts
    ├── parser.ts
    └── svg.ts
```
*Note: `colors.ts` and `cluster.ts` are inferred based on imports in the provided files.*

## Usage
To run this project, you will need Deno installed. Place your CSV data files (`data.csv` and `data_1.csv`) in a `csv` directory at the root of the project.

You can run the main script using Deno:

```bash
deno run --allow-read --allow-write --allow-net main.ts
```
*Note: `--allow-read` and `--allow-write` are needed for reading and writing files and `--allow-net` is needed for jsr imports.*

The `main.ts` file is currently configured to use `data_1.csv` and create 30 clusters. You can modify this file to experiment with different data sources or cluster counts. The SVG output is generated by calling `createClusterSVG`.

Commit message:

add some recommendations to README and parser.ts

README.md, after:

# k_means
This project provides an implementation of the K-means clustering algorithm using Deno and TypeScript. It reads data from a CSV file, performs k-means clustering, and can generate an SVG visualization of the results.

## How it Works
The process starts in `main.ts`, which reads and normalizes data from a CSV file (`data_1.csv` via `parser.ts`). It then initializes a specified number of clusters using the `divide_and_set_clusters` function from `parse_csv.ts`. This function assigns points to initial clusters and calculates their centroids. The core k-means algorithm is then executed by calling `iterate_clusters` (defined in `utils/cluster.ts`, not shown), which iteratively refines the cluster assignments and centroid positions. Finally, the results can be visualized by generating an SVG using the `createClusterSVG` function from `utils/svg.ts`.

- **`main.ts`**: The entry point of the application, orchestrating the data loading, cluster initialization, and iteration process.
- **`utils/parser.ts`**: Handles reading and parsing data from CSV files.
- **`utils/parse_csv.ts`**: Contains functions for dividing data into initial clusters and calculating initial centroids.
- **`utils/cluster.ts` (inferred)**: Contains the core k-means logic, including data normalization, centroid calculation, and the iterative clustering process.
- **`utils/svg.ts`**: Generates an SVG string representation of the clustered data for visualization.
- **`types/cluster_types.ts`**: Defines the TypeScript types used for points, clusters, and raw data.

## Data Sources
The data used in this project can be found on Kaggle, potentially from a search query like this: [https://www.kaggle.com/datasets?search=2d](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets?search=2d).

The project uses two main data files:

-   `data.csv`: This file is expected to have headers like "CondensedBinary2DGeometry", "BandGapLocation", and "BandGapWidth". The K-means algorithm in this project utilizes the values from the "BandGapLocation" and "BandGapWidth" columns.
-   `data_1.csv`: This file is expected to have headers like "x", "y", and "color". The K-means algorithm uses the "x" and "y" values from this file for clustering.

The specific configuration for reading these files and selecting the relevant columns is handled within the `utils/parser.ts` file.

## File Structure
```
k_means/
├── main.ts
├── types/
│   └── cluster_types.ts
└── utils/
    ├── colors.ts (inferred)
    ├── cluster.ts (inferred)
    ├── parse_csv.ts
    ├── parser.ts
    └── svg.ts
```
*Note: `colors.ts` and `cluster.ts` are inferred based on imports in the provided files.*

## Usage
To run this project, you will need Deno installed. Place your CSV data files (`data.csv` and `data_1.csv`) in a `csv` directory at the root of the project.

You can run the main script using Deno:

```bash
deno run --allow-read --allow-write --allow-net main.ts
```
*Note: `--allow-read` and `--allow-write` are needed for reading and writing files and `--allow-net` is needed for jsr imports.*

The `main.ts` file is currently configured to use `data_1.csv` and create 30 clusters. You can modify this file to experiment with different data sources or cluster counts. The SVG output is generated by calling `createClusterSVG`.\n
